A few things in life are more painful than the death of someone we love.
When my dad was diagnosed with Alzheimer's, I felt incredibly worried and anxious.
When he finally passed away, I had spent so much time worrying about him and thinking about him,
that I felt a huge emptiness. I didn't really know what to do with myself.
Shihou, our daughter, died from sickness when she was 16 years old.
She had a disability, so she was always with us, losing someone who was always there.
You know, right here, in front of you, that loss can't be expressed in words.
If you've experienced the loss of someone you love,
is there anything that can help ease the pain?
No two people experience grief in the same way.
But there are some practical suggestions that may help you.
These are frequently cited by grief counselors as being effective.
Number one, accept support from your friends and family.
I found it difficult to accept help from others because I felt like what I was going through
was so difficult that I felt like my friends wouldn't understand.
But when I reached out to my friends, they could do some of the things that I maybe had enjoyed with my dad.
And so it gave me the confidence that I wasn't going to be alone,
that I had friends that could fill that hole for me.
Our friends gave us upbuilding messages and lots of flowers,
enough to fill up this room.
Friends are a big help. They truly were there for us.
Number two, take care of your health.
Maintain a balanced diet.
Stay physically active.
Drink plenty of water.
And try to get enough sleep.
This is especially important when you're grieving because grief can be exhausting.
I found that if I didn't get good enough sleep, that it made things a lot harder.
I try and avoid being on my phone too much before bed,
and I try and do things that relax me.
Number three, be balanced.
Many find it helpful to alternate periods of grieving with breaks in their routine.
You might consider spending time with new friends, learning new skills,
or just enjoying some time off.
While at home, I was a bit down and maybe a little pessimistic.
But when I stepped outside, I noticed how nice the breeze was,
and I felt so much better.
Taking moments to relax works.
Number four, help others.
Many find it helpful to use some of their time to help others,
including friends and relatives who are also grieving the loss of your loved one.
Acts 2035, where it says there's more happiness and giving than there is in receiving,
really helped me.
So I tried every day, even if it was reaching out on the phone,
to do something for someone else.
And I found that that really helped with not just making me happy,
but helped control my anxiety too.
Number five, remember your loved one.
Many find it comforting to do things that help keep alive the memory of the person they've lost.
We sometimes talk about her saying, she'll use to love if we said this.
Oh, you remember she liked this?
And remembering those moments, wounds are hot.
None of these things can completely erase the pain of grief,
but they may provide you with at least a measure of relief.
The advice offered in this video is in perfect harmony with principles found in the Bible.
Many who have lost someone they love have found that turning to the Bible
gives them peace of mind and comfort.
For more information on how the Bible can help you cope with the pain of grief,
please visit our website jw.org.